Software Packages (#369)
port-labs/port-docs: docs/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/webhook/examples/packages/python.md

---
sidebar_position: 2
description: Ingest Python packages into your catalog
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs"
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem"
import ServiceBlueprint from './resources/python/\_example_service_blueprint.mdx'
import PackageBlueprint from './resources/python/\_example_package_blueprint.mdx'
import PackageWebhookConfig from './resources/python/\_example_package_webhook_config.mdx'

# Python

> In this example you are going to create `package` blueprint that ingests all third party dependencies and libraries in your requirements.txt file using a combination of REST API and Webhook. You will then relate this blueprint to a `service` blueprint, allowing you to map all the packages used by a service. Finally, you will add some script to transform your package file into a format required by the webhook.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example you are going to create a `package` blueprint that ingests all third party dependencies and libraries in your `requirements.txt` file using a combination of Port's API and webhook functionality. You will then relate this blueprint to a `service` blueprint, allowing you to map all the packages used by a service.

To ingest the packages to Port, a script that sends information about packages according to the webhook configuration is used.
```

## Prerequisites

Create the following blueprint definition and webhook configuration:

<details>
<summary>Service blueprint</summary>
<ServiceBlueprint/>
</details>

<details>
<summary>Package blueprint</summary>
<PackageBlueprint/>
</details>

<details>
<summary>Package webhook configuration</summary>

<PackageWebhookConfig/>

</details>

> ## Working with Port's API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Working with Port's API and Bash script
```

        # Skip empty lines or lines starting with #
        if [ -z "$line" ] || [ "$(printf %.1s "$line")" = "#" ]; then
            continue
        fi

        # Extract the name and version using awk
        name=$(echo "$line" | awk -F'==' '{print $1}')
        version=$(echo "$line" | awk -F'==' '{print $2}')

        # Generate the ID with the format "pkg-<ID>"
        pkg_id="pkg-$index"

        # Add the dependency to the JSON array
        dependencies="$dependencies{\"name\":\"$name\",\"version\":\"$version\",\"id\":\"$pkg_id\"},"

        # Increment the index
        index=$((index + 1))
    done < "$requirements_txt_path"

    # Remove the trailing comma from the dependencies string
    dependencies=$(echo "$dependencies" | sed 's/,$//')

    # Generate the final JSON object and send it to Port
    local entity_object="{\"service\":\"$SERVICE_ID\",\"dependencies\":[${dependencies}]}"

    local webhook_response=$(add_entity_to_port "$entity_object")
    echo "$webhook_response"

}
# Example usage

converted_data=$(convert_requirements_txt "$PATH_TO_REQUIREMENTS_TXT_FILE")
echo "$converted_data"
```

</details>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> For more information on how to adapt this tutorial with your existing Gitlab CI pipelines, visit:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For an example showing how to integrate the above scripts with your existing Gitlab CI pipelines, visit:
```

---
sidebar_position: 2
description: Ingest Python packages into your catalog
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs"
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem"
import ServiceBlueprint from './resources/service/\_example_global_service_blueprint.mdx'
import PackageBlueprint from './resources/python/\_example_package_blueprint.mdx'
import PackageWebhookConfig from './resources/python/\_example_package_webhook_config.mdx'

# Python

> In this example you are going to create a `package` blueprint that ingests all third party dependencies and libraries in your `requirements.txt` file using a combination of Port's [API](https://docs.getport.io/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/api/) and [webhook functionality](https://docs.getport.io/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/webhook/). You will then relate this blueprint to a `service` blueprint, allowing you to map all the packages used by a service.

Reviewer: Use relative link to page, and not hardcoded full URL (for example use ../../api/api.md - that might not be the real path, I am just providing it as an example)
